What we're gonna do in this last
part is set up JSON Web Tokens.
I'm not an expert on JSON Web Tokens.
I don't claim to be, nor do I want to be,
but what is a JSON Web Token?
A JWT is essentially that.
It is a URL that is containing information
specific to the person accepting or
the system accepting this request.
So we have a blue portion,
green portion, and a red portion.
The blue portion is the algorithm.
What do we use to create an hash
RJWT because they're hashed, right?
We don't want information to be
leaking left-right and center.
So what is the algorithm?
Which is in the JSON of ALG and HS256
is one of the more popular ones to hash
your text representation or essentially
hash your payload and signature.
Payload is information
that you wanna give it.
It could be anything.
It could be the user ID,
it could be his admin.
It could be X, Y, Z.
It's a payload that you create that you
can use to transfer information between
the requester and your backend system, and
then the most important
part is the signature.
This signature is incredibly important.
Forget to take away anything
from JWT's signature part.
The reason for that is if you get
a request from a different JWT,
someone like a bad agent or a bad actor
inserts their own JWT, you wanna make sure
that you're only accepting requests from
jots that you create, that you sign.
So typically, the signature is based
off of a string, which is again,
is like a hash that you create and
store very, very secretly.
They do not touch or
store in code or whatever.
And basically, what any parsing library
will do is it will check the signature and
identify did this essentially come
from me or another third party?
If it's third party, you wanna remove it.
You don't want that in your code at all.
And why this matters, I mean,
I think everyone here has
an understanding of how these works.
But basically, client asks our backend,
our backend gives the token.
This token is our JWT, our jot, and then
whenever our client wants super secret
routes, we take that token,
we check it out, validate it, and
then we either give it
a protected resource or not.
Right, I mean, not too groundbreaking.
I kept it fairly simple.
You can go crazy with this.
And there's actually a very good
article here from Medium, again,
this is gonna be in the resources,
so this is all gonna be attach.
And this is essentially what I'm going
to follow to create our JWT, but
essentially how to use this package
how you create your token and
how you can parse them, okay?
I take it one step further because I
cradled middleware around our routes, so
it starts to look a little bit gnarly,
especially the method signatures.
And passing an index function and
the method chain, but TLDR,
this is kind of how it's done, or just
a good resource of how it's done, okay?
Cool, so let's go cd back into our lambda.
And the very first thing
we're gonna need is
another last package is go get
github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5.
We get that package installed,
we're gonna go ahead and import it.
So github.com/golang-jwt/jwt/v5.
I'm gonna create a function
called func CreateToken.
And this is gonna accept
a user of type user,
and all it's gonna do is return a string,
okay?
And this string is gonna
represent our JWT,
the job that we're gonna
basically assemble right now.
So now what we wanna do,
is now is time.now.
So what is the current time
we're executing this function,
which is essentially gonna
be when a user logs in?
We get the current timestamp, and
then we create expires, push back,
validUntil, and this is where we assign
how long is this token good for?
You typically talk to the good, you have
short term tokens, long-term tokens.
This is a whole different topic
that we can definitely get into.
But for now, I'm gonna say that
this token is good for one hour.
Is that the best practice?
Depends on what are you using it for.
But it is what it is.
I'm gonna do one, whoops.
So one hour, and
I'm gonna convert that to Unix, okay?
And now we're gonna assemble
the payload of our JWT and
this is also considered as claims, right?
I'm gonna bring in our JWT.
I'm gonna do new,
sorry jwt.MapClaims, okay?
It's gonna be a struct, and
this is where we put in the fields
that we want to put in.
So this is information that we require,
like the payload that we're interested in.
So here we're gonna put user,
and it's gonna be user.username,
just to have something in there and then
expires, which this is important because
we're gonna parse that in our validation
logic and our validation middleware.
I'm gonna expires,
is going to be valid until, okay?
One hour from the time it's issued,
that's how it's gonna be good if it's
a second over, it's expired, okay?
So now let's assemble this token, so JWT.
I'm gonna do a new token, new with claims,
that's gonna take the method.
So the signing method, what's the
algorithm we're using to sign this JWT?
And the most important,
not important, the most famous one,
the most popular one is HX256.
Don't know what that algorithm means.
People, PhDs, theorists know,
I'm just using this, right?
I just know it's secure,
it's good, it's popular, and
we can put in our claims and nil.
Nil for no additional features,
no additional information to be
appended to our claims here, okay?
Next is this part, this is a wonky part.
This is basically where you want to store
your secret and not what I'm doing.
Do not do what I do right now.
This is a secret that should
be stored in AWS secrets or
something else, in a .env file.
I'm just using this just so
we can get the ball rolling here, but
secret is the signing method.
That important thing I was pointing at,
this is the signing method,
so keep it secret, and then so
we're gonna do tokenString.
And I believe this returns an error,
yes it does.
We're gonna do that token,
and we're gonna SignedString.
And this SignedString is
gonna take a slice of bytes,
and we're gonna put in the secret.
So now we basically signed our token
with this last piece of information.
I'm gonna say if error does not
equal to nil, what I'm gonna do is,
which could be to return an empty string,
okay?
And we can log in internally like,
hey, there's an error or hey,
something's going on.
But for our case,
we just return an empty string,
otherwise we're gonna return tokenString,
okay?
And this tokenString is that
assortment that LongHashed will create.
And right now, this is gonna include
our claims, when it expires, and
the signing method.